Security Operations Center (SOC)
	Threat Intelligence
Digital Forensics Incident Response (DFIR)
	Digital Forensics
	Incident Response
	Malware Analysis

A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of cyber security professionals that monitors the network and its systems to detect malicious cyber security events. Some of the main areas of interest for a SOC are:
	Vulnerabilities
	Policy violations
	Unauthorized activity
	Network intrusions

Threat Intelliigence
	-Intelligence refers to information.
	-A threat is any action that can disrupt or adversely affect a system.
	-Threat intelligence aims to manufacture a threat-informed defense.
	-Example adversaries include a nation-state cyber army working for political reasons and a randomware group acting for financial purposes.
	-Intelligence needs data, which must be collected, processed, and analyzed.

Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)
	Digital Forensics
	Indicident Response
	Malware Analysis

Digital Forensics
	Forensics is the application of science to investigate crimes and establish facts.
	The focus of digital forensics is analyzing evidence of an attack and its perpetrators and other areas such as intellectual property, theft, cyber espionage, and possession of unauthorized content.
Digital forensics focuses on different areas such as:
	File Systems
	System memory
	System logs
	Network logs: Logs of network packets that have traversed a network.

Incident Response
	An incident usually refers to a data breach or cyber attack, but can refer to something less critical
	Example: Making a network or system inaccessible, defacing a public website, and data breach (stealing company data).
Four major phases of the incident response process are:
	1. Preparationn
	2. Detection and Anlysis
	3. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
	4. Post-Incident Activity

Malware Analysis
	Malware stands for malicious software.
Malware includes many types, such as:
	Virus: Works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer.
	Trojan Horse is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath.
		Example: A victim might download a video player from a shady website that gives the attacker complete control over their system.
	Ransommware: Malicious program that encrypts the user's files, making the files unreadable without the encryption password. Usually results in blackmail but used for many malicious purposes.
Malware *analysis* aims to *learn* about such malicious programs using Static analysis and Dynamic analysis.
	1. Static analysis, which requires solid knowledge of assembly language, inspects the malicious program.
	2. Dynamic analysis, which lets you observe *how the malware behaves* when running, runs the malware IN A CONTROLLED ENVIRONMENT and monitors its activities.

